W-14317079 Disable logs documentation (1.6) (#419)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-config-disable-logs.adoc

//tag::config-disable-logs-intro[]

> Anypoint Flex Gateway logging provides insights into startup, shutdown, API requests, API responses, policies, and Fluent Bit. Logging allows developers and administrators to identify and address issues or anomalies. However, disabling log output to Anypoint Platform might become necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Flex Gateway logging provides insights into startup, shutdown, API requests, API responses, policies, and Fluent Bit. Logging enables developers and administrators to identify and address issues or anomalies. However, disabling log output to Anypoint Platform might be necessary.
```
Any chance we can say under which circumstances or for which purposes disabling log output is necessary? Something related to performance maybe?

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think that disabling Anypoint logs **ensures** compliance with those requirements since logs will still be sent to stdout and the specific tools that manage stdout will need to be reviewed
```suggestion
Anypoint Flex Gateway logging provides insights into startup, shutdown, API requests, API responses, policies, and Fluent Bit. Logging allows developers and administrators to identify and address issues or anomalies. However, disabling Anypoint Platform log output might become necessary. For example, regulatory or compliance frameworks can impose restrictions on retaining logs beyond a specific period.

```

Author: @seblaz I’ll remove the mention of compliance, because based on your comments it doesn’t sound like I had described a valid reason to disable sending logs to Anypoint Platform. I think we can assume that the customer will already know the reasons if their deployment requires disabling these logs.

> Before disabling log output, consider the potential impact on troubleshooting capabilities. In some cases, it might be more appropriate to adjust the log verbosity level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before disabling log output, consider the potential impact on troubleshooting capabilities. In some cases, it's more appropriate to adjust the log verbosity level.
```

Author: Fixed

> The following types of logs can be disabled:

Reviewer 2: Should we say that all logs can be stopped from being sent to Anypoint? Also, I'm a bit worried about saying `logs can be disabled` since they will not be disabled, they just will stop being sent to Anypoint but they will still be sent to stdout. 
```suggestion
All logs can be avoided to be sent to Anypoint:
```

I know there is the note that clarifies this, but I think it's still not 100% accurate to say `logs disabled`. I think it could be more accurate to say `logs will not be sent to Anypoint`, `Anypoint log output disabled`, or something similar.

* Runtime logs, including:
** The startup and shutdown of Flex Gateway, Fluent Bit, and Envoy.
** Deployed APIs and policies.
** Possible misconfigurations of Flex Gateway or other errors.

* Access logs, including:
** The description of incoming interaction with Envoy over a period of time.
** Incoming requests and responses for specific APIs.

NOTE: You can only disable logs sent to Anypoint Platform. Standard output (STDOUT) remains unchanged.

> You disable Flex Gateway logs by using a local configuration file. The following tutorial describes how to create and deploy the file.

Reviewer 2: [Reminder] I think it's not accurate to say `disable logs`

//end::config-disable-logs-intro[]
//tag::icon-table[]

[cols="1a,1a,1a,1a"]
|===
|image:install-linux-logo.png[20%,20%,xref="#linux"]
|image:install-container-logo.png[25%,25%,xref="#containers"]
|image:install-kubernetes-logo.png[20%,20%,xref="#kubernetes"]
|image:install-openshift-logo.png[20%,20%,xref="#openshift"]

|<<linux>>
|<<containers>>
|<<kubernetes>>
|<<openshift>>
|===

//end::icon-table[]
//tag::byb[]

== Before You Begin

Before configuring Flex Gateway log output, complete the following task:

* Depending on your output, ensure that the service where you direct logs to is operational. For more information about log output services, refer to xref:flex-{page-mode}-third-party-logs-config.adoc[Configuring Flex Gateway Output for Third-Party Services].

//end::byb[]
//tag::linux-section-1[]

[[linux]]

> == Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway as a Linux Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Disable Anypoint Log Output for Flex Gateway as a Linux Service
```

. Create a YAML configuration file in your Flex Gateway configuration directory. For example:
+
[source,ssh]
----
sudo touch /usr/local/share/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/disable-logs-config.yaml
----

. In the configuration file, set either `spec.logging.runtimeLogs.outputs.anypoint` or `spec.logging.accessLogs.outputs.anypoint` to `disabled`. The file resembles the following:
+
//end::linux-section-1[]

//tag::linux-section-2[]
. Save the file.
//end::linux-section-2[]

//tag::containers-section-1[]

[[containers]]

> == Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway in a Container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Disable Anypoint Log Output for Flex Gateway in a Container
```

NOTE: If you have already added a volume for a folder with your

> Flex Gateway configuration files, skip to the create and save a YAML file step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flex Gateway configuration files, skip to step 4.
```
Is this the proper step number?

Author: Fixed

. Press Ctrl+C to stop your Flex Gateway and any replicas.
. Create a folder named `app` in the directory with your Flex Gateway configuration files.
. Navigate to the `app` directory.
. Create a new configuration YAML file named `disable-logs-config.yaml`.
. In the configuration file, set either `spec.logging.runtimeLogs.outputs.anypoint` or `spec.logging.accessLogs.outputs.anypoint` to `disabled`. The file resembles the following:
//end::containers-section-1[]

//tag::containers-section-2[]
. Save the configuration file.
. Restart your Flex Gateway with the configuration directory volume:
//end::containers-section-2[]

//tag::k8s-section-1[]

[[kubernetes]]

> == Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway in a Kubernetes Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Disable Anypoint Log Output for Flex Gateway in a Kubernetes Cluster
```

> To disable logging for Flex Gateway:

Reviewer 2: [Reminder] I think it's not accurate to say `disable logs`

. Create a new resource using a YAML configuration file with the following example output configuration details:
+
//end::k8s-section-1[]

//tag::k8s-section-2[]
. Set either `spec.logging.runtimeLogs.outputs.anypoint` or `spec.logging.accessLogs.outputs.anypoint` to `disabled`.

//end::k8s-section-2[]

//tag::openshift-section-1[]

[[openshift]]

> == Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway in an OpenShift Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Disable Anypoint Log Output for Flex Gateway in an OpenShift Cluster
```

> To disable logging for Flex Gateway:

Reviewer 2: [Reminder] I think it's not accurate to say `disable logs`

//tag::config-disable-logs-intro[]

> Flex Gateway logging provides insights into startup, shutdown, API requests, API responses, policies, and Fluent Bit. Logging allows developers and administrators to identify and address any issues or anomalies. However, disabling log output might become necessary. Reasons include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flex Gateway logging provides insights into startup, shutdown, API requests, API responses, policies, and Fluent Bit. Logging allows developers and administrators to identify and address issues or anomalies. However, disabling anypoint log output might become necessary. Reasons include:
```

I think that this changes often say "disable logs" but this feature only allows for logs to not be sent to anypoint. Nevertheless, logs are still available in stdout. I think we can review the doc again after this is adapted

> * Compliance: Certain regulatory or compliance frameworks may impose restrictions on storing or retaining logs beyond a specific period. Disabling logs ensures compliance with such requirements and avoids unnecessary data retention.

Reviewer 2: Given that this feature doesn't disable logs from stdout, it's still necessary to deal with log retention

> * Security: In some cases, logging sensitive information might pose a security risk. Disabling logs can prevent the storage of sensitive data, reducing the chances of potential data breaches.

Reviewer 2: I think that the security risk is about sending the logs to Anypoint

Author: Hi @seblaz, is the concern that we're sending sensitive information to Anypoint, and that there can be data breaches when sending this information? If so, should we really be documenting that Anypoint is insecure?

Reviewer 2: When I wrote this comment I thought about security risk involving outbound connections. Nevertheless, giving it a second thought, I think your comment is better.

IMHO, I would try to say something like this:
```suggestion
* Security: In some cases, logging sensitive information might pose a security risk. Not sending logs to a third party system can prevent the storage of sensitive data, reducing the chances of potential data breaches.
```

I think that customers are usually concerned about sending sensitive information to other systems that they don't own

Author: For now, I removed discussion about security.

//end::containers-section-1[]

//tag::containers-section-2[]
. Save the configuration file.
. Restart your Flex Gateway with the configuration directory volume:
//end::containers-section-2[]

//tag::k8s-section-1[]

[[kubernetes]]
== Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway in a Kubernetes Cluster

To disable logging for Flex Gateway:

. Create a new resource using a YAML configuration file with the following example output configuration details:
+
//end::k8s-section-1[]

//tag::k8s-section-2[]
. Set either `spec.logging.runtimeLogs.outputs.anypoint` or `spec.logging.accessLogs.outputs.anypoint` to `disabled`.

//end::k8s-section-2[]

//tag::openshift-section-1[]

[[openshift]]
== Disable Log Output for Flex Gateway in an OpenShift Cluster

To disable logging for Flex Gateway:

. Create a new resource using a YAML configuration file with the following example output configuration details:
+
//end::openshift-section-1[]

//tag::openshift-section-2[]
. Set either `spec.logging.runtimeLogs.outputs.anypoint` or `spec.logging.accessLogs.outputs.anypoint` to `disabled`.

//end::openshift-section-2[]

//tag::config-disable-logs-example[]

[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1beta1

Reviewer 3: Minimal configuration required to disable log:
other output is not necessary to it
`apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1beta1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: logging-config
spec:
  logging:
    runtimeLogs:
      logLevel: info
      outputs:
        anypoint: disabled
    accessLogs:
      outputs:
        anypoint: disabled`
